.\" Copyright (c) 1992 by the University of Kiel.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"	@(#)update.1	1.0 (University of Kiel) 1/11/92
.\"
.TH UPDATE 1 "November 1, 1992"
.UC
.SH NAME
update \- update or create a directory(-tree)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update
[
.BR \- s
.I source
] [
.BR \- r
.I revision-name
] [
.BR \- d
.I revision-date
] [
.I dir \|.\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B update
is used to actualize the named directories. All files included in
the file
.B RCS-files
are checked out if the creation time of the respective RCS file
is newer than the plain file. Upon invoking
.B update
in a directory which contains a file
.BR RCS-directory,
this operation is repeated within all directories specified in
.BR RCS-directories .
Not existing directories are created, and links to the expected
respective source directories are installed.
.LP
A specific revision is obtained by using
.B \-r
.I revision-name
or
.B \-d
.IR revision-date .
The requested revision will be checked out without checking the creation times.
All locked files will be processed and eventually checked in before
they are overwritten.
.LP
The option
.B \-s
.I source
is used to generate a new project. The named source directory must contain
a file
.BR RCS-directories .
The included directories are
created and softlinks to the respective RCS directories are installed.
.LP
If the options
.B -r|-d|-s
are used on an non empty directory, first all files as
specified in
.B RCS-files
respectively
.B RCS-directories
are unlocked and removed if neccessary.
.LP
A (re)load of the actual version can be forced by using on eof the
artificial revision names
.BR "new|actual" .
.SH FILES
.TP 1i
.B RCS-files
contains the names of all files within a directory that is controlled
by RCS
.TP
.B RCS-directories
contains the names of all directories belonging to an RCS-project
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 1i
.B RCSROOT
default directory if no command-line directories are given
.SH SEE\ ALSO
.BR co (1),
.BR mkfl (1),
.BR setrev (1),
.BR rcs-project (5)
